Hello, welcome to the first challenge
of the stl section of the course.
Now I didn't give you any vector
challenges because you've done quite a
lot of vector challenges in the course.
So we're going to start
with a deque, and I know a
deque is new to most of you.
So I'm in the section 20 workspace.
And here you can see
the challenge_1 project.
And the challenge_1solution project.
The solution project obviously
has my solution to this problem.
And the challenge_1 has the
source code to get you started.
So let's talk about the challenge.
The challenge is all
about using a deque.
So we know what a palindrome is.
Some of you may not know
what a palindrome is.
A palindrome is a string that reads
the same backwards or forwards.
So a simple example is
madam, bob, toot, radar and
there's very many, many more.
So these are words that read
the same forward or backwards.
Now we can have entire
phrases can be palindromes.
For example, a Toyota's a
Toyota, a Santa at NASA, a man,
a plan, a cat, a ham, a yak,
a yam, a hat, a canal panama.
All these are great examples of
entire phrases that are palindromes.
For the purposes of this
assignment, we're only going
to consider alpha characters.
We're going to omit everything else.
So spaces, commas, exclamation
points and so forth, apostrophes,
as we see here, will all
be eliminated or omitted.
So when we read something like a Santa
at NASA, what we're going to convert
that to is ASANTAATNASA, like that.
All uppercase, and get rid of
all the special characters that --
and obviously, you know what to use.
You can use the cc type
header file for that.
So how do you solve this problem.
Well, a common method to solve the
problem is to process the string
you end up with something like that.
And then you reverse that string
and you compare the two strings.
Obviously, if the two strings are
the same, right, the one that's
normal and the one reversed,
then it must be a palindrome.
But we're not going to do it that
way, we're going to use a deque.
I'm providing a main driver for you
that'll automatically run a bunch
of test cases, and your challenge
is to write one function, the
function is called is palindrome.
It returns a true false value,
and it expects a string.
So I'm going to send you a string, and
you're going to return true or false.
The function, as I said, determines
whether that string is a palindrome.
That function must take
care of removing any spaces
and any special characters.
So here's a couple of examples.
Is palindrome "A Santa at
NASA", that will return true.
Is palindrome "Hello" should return false
because hello is not a palindrome.
All right, and what I'd like you to do
is to use a deque to solve the problem.
After all, that's the section
we're in, the stl section,
and the deque is a perfect
container to help us solve this.
If you need a hint, please post
something in the Q&A forum.
This is a very common question
that's used in coding interviews.
And a lot of times, they'll
start the coding interview
with solve this problem.
The majority of the applicants
will try to come up with the
string, reverse it and compare.
And at that point the, interviewer will
say could you use a data structure like
a deque to do it, and that gets a lot of
people because all the books show you
how to do it with reversing the string.
But it's interesting
to do it with a deque.
Let me run my solution so you
can see the sample output.
And here's the sample output.
I've got a result, and
I've got the string.
So in this case, you can see the
lowercase letter a is true, aa is
true, aba is true, abba is true.
These are all palindromes, but
obviously the ab is not a palindrome
nor is the abc radar and bob and ana
are as are all these more complicated
phrases, even c++ is, right.
Once we get rid of the ++, we're
left with a c, that's
definitely a palindrome.
Okay, so there's your test cases.
Let me show you what your
main would look like.
And this is the code that
I'm providing for you.
This is the function you have
to write, right here it's called
is palindrome expects a std
string, returns a boolean.
Right now I'm just returning false.
You have to write this.
And here's the main.
I've got a vector of a
bunch of strings, and these
strings are my test cases.
And that's it.
You shouldn't have to
do anything in the main.
The main is basically going to
loop through all of these strings
and call the is palindrome method
right there, pass the string into
it, you'll return true and false,
and the main will display it.
So your job is to implement
this function right here,
remember, use a deque.
Okay, so have fun.
Think about it. It's actually a pretty simple problem.
And don't go crazy with iterators.
You don't have to use
any of that stuff.
Just use the front and the back of
the deque, that's what it's all about.
And when you're done, you can come
over to challenge one solution
and meet me in the next video.